=== TITLE + ABSTRACT ===
BACScan: Automatic Black-Box Detection of
Broken-Access-Control Vulnerabilities in Web Applications
Fengyu Liu
Fudan University
Shanghai, China
fengyuliu23@m.fudan.edu.cn
Yuan Zhang
Fudan University
Shanghai, China
yuanxzhang@fudan.edu.cn
Enhao Li
Fudan University
Shanghai, China
ehli23@m.fudan.edu.cn
Wei Meng
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Hong Kong SAR, China
wei@cse.cuhk.edu.hk
Youkun Shi
Fudan University
Shanghai, China
21110240048@m.fudan.edu.cn
Qianheng Wang
Fudan University
Shanghai, China
21307130075@m.fudan.edu.cn
Chenlin Wang
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Hong Kong SAR, China
clwang23@cse.cuhk.edu.hk
Zihan Lin
Fudan University
Shanghai, China
zhlin22@m.fudan.edu.cn
Min Yang
Fudan University
Shanghai, China
m_yang@fudan.edu.cn
Abstract
Broken-Access-Control (BAC) vulnerabilities have consistently been
ranked among the most critical security risks in web applications,
occupying the top positions in the OWASP Top 10 over the past
several years. These vulnerabilities allow attackers to bypass access
control mechanisms and perform unauthorized operations, posing
security and privacy threats to sensitive business and user data.
Despite substantial attention given to BAC vulnerabilities, effective
and reliable approaches to detecting these issues remain limited.
In this work, we present BACScan, a novel black-box approach
to detect BAC vulnerabilities in web applications. Unlike existing
response similarity-based oracles that check only unauthorized
read accesses, BACScan introduces an innovative feedback-driven
oracle, which determines whether unauthorized read or modifica-
tion operations have occurred by inferring operationally-dependent
web pages and analyzing the operational feedback. We evaluated
BACScan on 20 real-world applications and successfully identified
89 vulnerabilities, including 54 previously unreported ones, out-
performing state-of-the-art tools. We reported all newly identified
vulnerabilities to the affected vendors. To date, 35 new CVE IDs
have been assigned.
CCS Concepts
•Security and privacy→Web application security.
Keywords
Broken Access Control; Web Security
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
CCS ’25, Taipei
©2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-1525-9/2025/10
https://doi.org/10.1145/3719027.3744825
ACM Reference Format:
Fengyu Liu, Yuan Zhang, Enhao Li, Wei Meng, Youkun Shi, Qianheng
Wang, Chenlin Wang, Zihan Lin, and Min Yang. 2025. BACScan: Automatic
Black-Box Detection of Broken-Access-Control Vulnerabilities in Web Ap-
plications. InProceedings of the 2025 ACM SIGSAC Conf. on Computer and
Communications Security (CCS ’25), October 13–17, 2025, Taipei.ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 14 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3719027.3744825

=== INTRODUCTION ===

1 Introduction
Broken-Access-Control moves up to the category with the most serious
web application security risk.
— The OW ASP Top 10 [19].
With the rapid advancement of web applications, numerous
commercial platforms (e.g., Amazon [1], PayPal [9]) now store sub-
stantial volumes of critical privacy-sensitive user data, including
identity and payment information, thereby making them attractive
targets for web attackers. To protect this sensitive data, developers
implement and deploy access control mechanisms to prevent unau-
thorized operations. However, inadequate or improperly configured
access control mechanisms can give rise to serious vulnerabilities,
known asB roken-Access-Control(BAC) vulnerabilities.
In recent years, BAC vulnerabilities have become increasingly
severe. According to the OWASP Top 10, BAC vulnerabilities have
consistently ranked among the most critical issues over the past
five years [18, 19, 21]. In OWASP 2023, BAC vulnerabilities even
accounted for four out of the five most severe vulnerabilities [21].
Furthermore, numerous widely-used applications, including PayPal,
Twitter, and TikTok, have been reported to exhibit BAC vulnerabil-
ities, as documented in HackerOne [15, 16]. Attackers may exploit
these vulnerabilities to perform unauthorized operations, includ-
ing arbitrary read, modification, or even deletion of sensitive data,
thereby posing significant threats to the availability and integrity
of the vulnerable applications [20, 22].
Although BAC vulnerability detection is a well-explored research
topic, the increasing severity of BAC vulnerabilities highlights the
long-lasting lack of highly effective detection techniques. Recent de-
tection approaches can generally be categorized into white-box and
CCS ’25, October 13–17, 2025, Taipei Fengyu Liu et al.
black-box methods. White-box approaches exhibit significant limi-
tations, including high false positive rates, the inability to generate
proof-of-concept (PoC), and scalability issues associated with static
analysis techniques [45]. To address these limitations, researchers
have explored dynamic black-box scanning techniques (i.e., scan-
ners), which are widely used methods for penetration testing and
are particularly effective in detecting security flaws in real-world
scenarios [24, 30]. Given these advantages, we adopted a black-
box approach for detecting BAC vulnerabilities and conducted a
thorough study of existing black-box techniques. Specifically, these
techniques [28, 35, 37, 49, 50, 62] rely on aresponse similarity-based
oracle(shortened to response-based oracle) for detecting BAC vul-
nerabilities. In particular, the security analysts set up an attacker
and a victim user accounts with the scanners. The scanner uses the
attacker’s credentials to send HTTP requests to access the victim’s
personal data. If the response received by the attacker is similar to
the victim’s, a BAC vulnerability is reported.
However, the design of this oracle exhibits significant inherent
flaws. Oracle is a crucial and fundamental component of black-box
scanners, playing a pivotal role in determining the effectiveness of
black-box vulnerability detection [32]. Unfortunately, the response-
based oracle is based on a flawed assumption: thedirect responseto
a BAC attack request always provides evidence indicating whether
the exploit is successful or not. This assumption holds true in scenar-
ios like unauthorized data leakage via Read-based Broken Access
Control (RBAC) vulnerabilities, where the leaked data is directly
returned to the attacker via the HTTP response. However, in other
scenarios such as unauthorized data deletion viaModification-based
Broken Access Control (MBAC) vulnerabilities, this assumption
fails as the direct HTTP response to the attack request does not nec-
essarily indicate whether the unauthorized operation is successful.
This erroneous oracle leads to a significant rate of false negatives
and false positives in the detection of MBAC vulnerabilities (70.97%
and 86.96% in our evaluation, respectively).
In this paper, we propose BACScan, a novel black-box approach
to detecting BAC vulnerabilities in web applications. Specifically,
BACScan employs the state-of-the-art (SoTA) response-based oracle
for detecting RBAC vulnerabilities where the direct HTTP response
provides feedback. We design a novel feedback-driven oracle for
MBAC vulnerabilities where the direct HTTP response cannot re-
flect the modification status. It determines whether unauthorized
modifications have succeeded by observing the feedback from other
operationally-dependent pages that indicate the modification sta-
tus. While the idea is intuitively simple, effectively implementing
and applying this feedback-driven oracle for MBAC vulnerability
detection presents significant challenges. To achieve this, two main
challenges must be carefully addressed:
• C1: How to accurately and efficiently identify status pages that
provide feedback in a black-box context?Accurately identifying
the corresponding status pages that provide feedback for modi-
fication pages is critical for vulnerability detection. However,
in a black-box scenario, only HTTP requests and responses are
available. Given the vast number of requests and responses in
modern web applications, accurately and efficiently pinpointing
these operationally-dependent status pages is non-trivial.
• C2: How to navigate the application into the correct state to collect
effective feedback for MBAC vulnerability detection?Once the
status page providing feedback is identified, the next step is
to replay modification requests using an attacker’s session and
verify if unauthorized changes to data occur. However, the target
application may not be in the right state, and issues like attempts
to delete non-existent data may cause operations to fail, resulting
in failed request replays and affecting detection accuracy.
Inspired by Black Widow [32], we observe that the data access
and operational dependency between web pages can help us identify
the corresponding status pages of the modification page. The status
pages could provide feedback for detecting unauthorized modifi-
cations. Therefore, BACScan introduces a novel data structure to
represent the data dependency relationship, called the Inter-page
Data Dependency Graph (IDDG). Specifically, it utilizes SoTA crawl-
ing techniques with the victim user’s credentials to construct the
IDDG based on the navigation graph. The process involves inter-
cepting requests to modification pages, generating and inserting
unique tokens, and leveraging the hierarchical strategy to efficiently
traverse the navigation graph to establish data dependencies be-
tween modification and status pages. Then, BACScan leverages the
constructed IDDG to apply the novel feedback-driven oracle to
detect MBAC vulnerabilities. Specifically, it follows the navigation
edge to replay modification requests with the attacker’s credentials
and follows the data dependency edge to revisit corresponding
status pages to obtain feedback. It then detects potential MBAC
vulnerabilities based on the presence or absence of unique tokens.
We evaluate the effectiveness and performance of BACScan on 6
open-source web applications with 44 known BAC vulnerabilities
and 14 applications with no known vulnerabilities. These applica-
tions have been widely evaluated in previous studies [ 26, 34, 48,
56, 58] and each has at least 100 stars on GitHub, demonstrating
their representativeness and popularity. Moreover, they are imple-
mented in various languages, including Java, PHP, and Go, further
demonstrating the language-independent advantage ofBACScan. As
a result, BACScan successfully discovered 89 vulnerabilities, includ-
ing 54 (verified) high-risk 0-day and 35 known BAC vulnerabilities.
Besides, we compare BACScan to state-of-the-art techniques (i.e.,
BurpSuite [12] and EvoCrawl [35]). BACScan performs significantly
better, detecting up to 49 additional vulnerabilities. These newly
discovered BAC vulnerabilities have the potential to leak sensi-
tive user information, delete or modify critical operational data and
records (e.g., changing a patient’s prescription), posing serious secu-
rity and privacy threats to individual users and business operations.
Given their significant security impact, we responsibly reported all
the newly detected vulnerabilities to the relevant developers. At
the time of writing, 39 vulnerabilities have been confirmed by the
developers, and 35 have been assigned new CVE IDs.
In summary, our paper makes the following contributions:
• We design a new feedback-driven oracle that leverages inter-page
data dependency for black-box detection of BAC vulnerabilities.
• We propose a novel black-box detection approach—BACScan—to
effectively detect BAC vulnerabilities in web applications. We
will open-source our prototype upon publication.
• Our evaluation with 20 real-world popular web applications
demonstrates the effectiveness of BACScan, with the discovery
of 54 (verified) 0-day BAC vulnerabilities and the assignment of
35 new CVE IDs.
BACScan: Automatic Black-Box Detection of Broken-Access-Control Vulnerabilities in Web Applications CCS ’25, October 13–17, 2025, Taipei
http://website/user-a.php?op=delete
User A's info
• Name: Alice
• Addr: US
User B's info
• Name: Bob
• Addr: UK
http://website/user-b.php?op=delete
Web Application
User A (Victim)
User B (Attacker)
Figure 1: Threat Model of BAC Vulnerability.

=== CONCLUSION / DISCUSSION / LIMITATIONS ===

6 Discussion
Limitations and Future works.While BACScan worked well in
the evaluations, we see several potential improvements.
• Web Crawler.For a long time, the question of how to enable
crawlers to fully explore web applications has been a popular
research topic. In practice, we have observed that state-of-the-art
crawlers (e.g., Black Widow [32]) are indeed capable of effectively
exploring the majority of web pages. However, there are still some
web pages that remain insufficiently explored, which leads to
false negatives inBACScan. In the future, as crawling technologies
continue to advance, we believe that the performance ofBACScan
will be further improved.
• Performance Trade-off.As described in §4.1.2, BACScan assumes
that tokens are only inserted into POST requests triggered dur-
ing the page exploration process. It is important to note that
excluding token insertion for GET requests is primarily a perfor-
mance trade-off. While intercepting GET requests and inserting
tokens would be effective, it would also significantly increase the
analysis time required by BACScan. Hooking database operations
to determine which database actions are triggered by HTTP re-
quests is a highly effective approach. However, in the context of
black-box testing, we do not have access to the database. There-
fore, we can only make every effort to infer the triggered database
actions from the evidence in HTTP requests and responses.
Ethics Consideration.This study has not presented any legal
or ethical issues. We obtained the source code for local analysis
and responsibly reported all detected vulnerabilities in open-source
applications to the CVE Numbering Authority (CNA) [ 2]. Addi-
tionally, we have contacted all the developers regarding the BAC
vulnerabilities found in §5.2, and will continue to communicate
with them throughout the vulnerability disclosure process.
7 Related Work
BAC Vulnerability Detection.There are numerous studies [ 28,
35, 37, 40–44, 46, 49, 50, 52–55, 58, 60–62] that have employed var-
ious techniques to detect BAC vulnerabilities. These studies are
commonly categorized into two main types: dynamic approaches
and static approaches. The dynamic approaches [ 28, 35, 37, 40–
42, 49, 50, 62] typically simulate multiple users through login ses-
sions and use cross-user forced browsing combined with response-
based oracles to detect vulnerabilities. However, these oracles are
inadequate for detecting MBAC vulnerabilities due to their inability
to capture data dependencies, affecting precision and recall. Static
approaches [43, 44, 46, 52–55, 58, 60, 61] model user credentials (e.g.,
$_SESSION in PHP) and use predefined rules to identify permission
checks. While effective in some cases, they still present notable lim-
itations. On one hand, they suffer from high false positives due to
the lack of runtime context to validate vulnerability reports. On the
other hand, they require static analysis of the source code, limiting
their applicability to programs developed in specific programming
languages. Unlike these previous efforts, BACScan eliminates the
need for additional input and leverages a novel IDDG-based ap-
proach to accurately detect BAC vulnerabilities, addressing the
limitations of both static and dynamic methods.
Web Vulnerability Detection.In recent years, the techniques
for automatically detecting vulnerabilities within web applications
have been extensively studied. These techniques also can be catego-
rized into static and dynamic approaches. The static approaches [25,
27, 36, 38, 45, 57] identify user inputs as sources and predefined
security-sensitive operations as sinks. They then analyze whether a
data flow path exists from the source to the sink, indicating a poten-
tial vulnerability. The dynamic approaches [23, 29, 32, 34, 47, 51, 56]
design oracles specifically tailored to the security-sensitive oper-
ations relevant to different types of vulnerabilities. For example,
an exception thrown by an SQL execution function may serve as
an oracle to detect SQL injection vulnerabilities. These approaches
detect vulnerabilities by monitoring runtime behavior and deter-
mining whether the corresponding oracle is triggered during the
execution of the application. However, these approaches mainly
focus on taint-style vulnerabilities, which rely on well-defined se-
curity operations for modeling. In contrast, BAC vulnerabilities
are tied to business logic and cannot be effectively modeled. This
fundamental difference leads to false positives and false negatives
when these methods are applied to BAC vulnerability detection.
8 Conclusion
In this paper, we propose BACScan, a novel black-box approach
for detecting Broken-Access-Control (BAC) vulnerabilities in web
applications. By introducing a feedback-driven oracle based on
inter-page data dependency, BACScan addresses the limitations of
existing detection methods, particularly for modification-based
BAC vulnerabilities. We evaluate BACScan on 20 open-source web
applications, discovering 89 BAC vulnerabilities, including 54 previ-
ously unknown high-risk 0-day vulnerabilities and the assignment
of 35 new CVE IDs. These findings demonstrate the practical utility
of BACScan in BAC vulnerability detection. We hope our work can
assist the community in addressing the growing threats posed by
BAC vulnerabilities.
Acknowledgement
We would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their insightful
comments that helped improve the quality of the paper. This work
was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation
of China (U2436207, 62172105). Yuan Zhang and Min Yang are
the corresponding authors. Yuan Zhang was supported in part by
the Shanghai Pilot Program for Basic Research - FuDan University
21TQ1400100 (21TQ012). Min Yang is a faculty of Shanghai Institute
of Intelligent Electronics & Systems, and Engineering Research
Center of Cyber Security Auditing and Monitoring, Ministry of
Education, China.
