=== TITLE + ABSTRACT ===
AuthScope: Towards Automatic Discovery of Vulnerable
Authorizations in Online Services
Chaoshun Zuo
he University of Texas at Dallas
800 W Campbell Rd
Richardson, Texas 75080
chaoshun.zuo@utdallas.edu
Qingchuan Zhao
he University of Texas at Dallas
800 W Campbell Rd
Richardson, Texas 75080
qingchuan.zhao@utdallas.edu
Zhiqiang Lin
he University of Texas at Dallas
800 W Campbell Rd
Richardson, Texas 75080
zhiqiang.lin@utdallas.edu
ABSTRACT
Whenaccessingonlineprivateresources(e.g.,userproiles,photos,
shopping carts) from a client (e.g., a desktop web-browser or a
mobile app), the service providers must implement proper access
control, which typically involves both authentication and autho-
rization. However, not all of the service providers follow the best
practice, resulting in various access control vulnerabilities. To un-
derstand such a threat in a large scale, and identify the vulnerable
access control implementations in online services, this paper in-
troduces AuthScope, a tool that is able to automatically execute a
mobile app and pinpoint the vulnerable access control implemen-
tations, particularly the vulnerable authorizations, in the corre-
sponding online service. he key idea is to use diferential traic
analysis to recognize the protocol ields and then automatically
substitute the ields and observe the server response. One of the
keychallengesforalargescalestudyliesinhowtoobtainthepost-
authenticationrequest-and-responsemessagesforagivenapp. We
have thus developed a targeted dynamic activity explorer to per-
form an in-context analysis and drive the app execution to au-
tomatically log in the service. We have tested AuthScope with
4,838 popular mobile apps from Google Play, and identiied597
0-day vulnerable authorizations that map to306 apps.
CCS CONCEPTS
•Security and privacy →Access control; Authorization; Web
application security;
KEYWORDS
Access control; authorization; vulnerability discovery
1 INTRODUCTION
For any multi-user computing systems (e.g., online shopping and
social networking), there is a need to regulate who can view or
use a resource. A particular security mechanism to achieve this
is to use access control, in which a user needs to be irst authenti-
cated (i.e., telling the system who the user is) and then the access
is granted if the authenticated user has the permission to do so.
he use of access control can be dated back to Multics Operating
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classr
oom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
forproitorcommercialadvantageandthatcopiesbearthisnoticeandthefullcitation
on the irst page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than
ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permited. To copy otherwise,
or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speciic
permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
CCS’17, Oct. 30–Nov. 3, 201

=== INTRODUCTION ===
AuthScope: Towards Automatic Discovery of Vulnerable
Authorizations in Online Services
Chaoshun Zuo
he University of Texas at Dallas
800 W Campbell Rd
Richardson, Texas 75080
chaoshun.zuo@utdallas.edu
Qingchuan Zhao
he University of Texas at Dallas
800 W Campbell Rd
Richardson, Texas 75080
qingchuan.zhao@utdallas.edu
Zhiqiang Lin
he University of Texas at Dallas
800 W Campbell Rd
Richardson, Texas 75080
zhiqiang.lin@utdallas.edu
ABSTRACT
Whenaccessingonlineprivateresources(e.g.,userproiles,photos,
shopping carts) from a client (e.g., a desktop web-browser or a
mobile app), the service providers must implement proper access
control, which typically involves both authentication and autho-
rization. However, not all of the service providers follow the best
practice, resulting in various access control vulnerabilities. To un-
derstand such a threat in a large scale, and identify the vulnerable
access control implementations in online services, this paper in-
troduces AuthScope, a tool that is able to automatically execute a
mobile app and pinpoint the vulnerable access control implemen-
tations, particularly the vulnerable authorizations, in the corre-
sponding online service. he key idea is to use diferential traic
analysis to recognize the protocol ields and then automatically
substitute the ields and observe the server response. One of the
keychallengesforalargescalestudyliesinhowtoobtainthepost-
authenticationrequest-and-responsemessagesforagivenapp. We
have thus developed a targeted dynamic activity explorer to per-
form an in-context analysis and drive the app execution to au-
tomatically log in the service. We have tested AuthScope with
4,838 popular mobile apps from Google Play, and identiied597
0-day vulnerable authorizations that map to306 apps.
CCS CONCEPTS
•Security and privacy →Access control; Authorization; Web
application security;
KEYWORDS
Access control; authorization; vulnerability discovery
1 INTRODUCTION
For any multi-user computing systems (e.g., online shopping and
social networking), there is a need to regulate who can view or
use a resource. A particular security mechanism to achieve this
is to use access control, in which a user needs to be irst authenti-
cated (i.e., telling the system who the user is) and then the access
is granted if the authenticated user has the permission to do so.
he use of access control can be dated back to Multics Operating
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classr
oom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
forproitorcommercialadvantageandthatcopiesbearthisnoticeandthefullcitation
on the irst page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than
ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permited. To copy otherwise,
or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speciic
permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
CCS’17, Oct. 30–Nov. 3, 2017, Dallas, TX, USA.
© 2017 ACM. ISBN 978-1-4503-4946-8/17/10…$15.00
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3133956.3134089
Systems [32], where a user irst logs in the system to acquire a
user
ID (UID) via a password-based authentication, and then the
kernelcheckstheUIDwhentheuserrequestsaccesstoaprotected
resource based on the corresponding permissions. Nearly all of
the later multi-user operating systems (e.g., UNIX/Linux) have fol-
lowed such an approach when implementing their access control
mechanisms.
When moving to the online services, designing and implement-
ing a secure access control mechanism becomes a challenging task
for several reasons. First, an online service can have up to hun-
dreds of millions (even billions) of users, and handling such a large
scale of users oten needs to use eicient database technologies.
Second, managing the user credential correctly for authentication
is another challenge (e.g., many online service today still mistak-
enly store plaintext password [3, 12]). hird, the client side (e.g., a
br
owser, amobileapp)canbecompletelycontrolledbyanatacker
and cannot be trusted at all. hat is, a request message generated
by a client can be untrusted, and the eicient security check is
needed at the server side [47].
While
the use of single-sign-on (e.g., with Facebook Login) [38]
has
made the authentication management much easier for online
services, it does not solve the authorization problem automatically
in that the online service provider (e.g., shopping sites such as
Amazon)stillhastoregulatethattheauthenticateduseronlyviews
and updates her own resources (e.g., her user proile or shopping
cart). Over the past many years, an eicient approach of using
security tokens to handle authorization was developed [20], and
p
opularized especially in web applications. In particular, in tradi-
tional desktop web applications, a browser cookie or a session ID
(these are oten called security tokens) is used for the authoriza-
tion.
Consequently,thesecurityoftheauthorizationdependsonhow
strong the token is (and also whether the server enforces it). Any
disclosure, capture, prediction, brute force, or ixation of the se-
curity tokens will lead to severe atacks such as account hijack-
ing, where an atacker is able to fully impersonate a victim to
get all of her personal data. Unfortunately, not all of the online
service providers follow the best practice when using the security
tokens for the authorization. For instance, we have observed weak
security tokens (e.g., just a very small integer) passing through
mobile apps. Meanwhile, we have also observed that even though
a service provider may have used strong security tokens (e.g., a
256-bit cryptographic hash), the server actually does not enforce
whether this token belongs to a particular user (i.e., the token) or
it is just a token. Given the fact that so many mobile apps used
in our daily lives, it is imperative to systematically identify these
Session D2:  Vulnerable Mobile Apps
CCS’17, October 30-November 3, 2017, Dallas, TX, USA
799
vulnerable access control servers, otherwise users’ personal data
can
be thus leaked.
To this end, this paper introduces AuthScope, a tool to auto-
matically identify the vulnerable access control servers, especially
the vulnerable authorizations, when given just mobile apps. Since
we do not have any source code of the sever side implementations,
we can only perform a blackbox analysis of the remote server by
generating and analyzing various network request and response
messages between the client and the server. To pinpoint the vul-
nerable access control implementations, our key insight is to use
diferential traic analysis, a widely used network protocol anal-
ysis technique (e.g., [13, 16, 17, 40, 47]), to recognize the network
pr
otocol ields and then automatically substitute the ields of in-
terest and observe the server response to identify the vulnerable
services. One of the key challenges for a large scale study lies in
how to obtain the post-authentication request-and-response mes-
sage pairs for a given app. We have thus developed an adaptive
dynamic app activity explorer to perform an in-context analysis
and drive the app execution to automatically log in the service.
WehaveimplementedAuthScopeandtesteditwith 4,838very
popular mobile apps from Google Play. Note that these apps all
contain Facebook login and they belong to the top 10% of the mo-
bile apps in terms of the accumulated downloads in Google Play.
To our surprise, AuthScope has identiied597 0-day vulnerable
access control implementations in the server side of306 mobile
apps (with an upper bound of total install of 61 million). he
root cause of these vulnerabilities comes from the mistaken use of
either predictable IDs, or user’s email address, or user’s Facebook
IDfortheauthorizationwithout(orenforcing)anysecuritytokens.
Consequently, these online services can all be completely broken
by an adversary, and privacy sensitiveor evensecretdata for up to
61 million mobile users can be leaked due to these vulnerabilities.
In short, we make the following contributions in this paper.
- Novel System. We present AuthScope, a novel tool to
automaticallyidentifythevulnerableaccesscontrolonthe
server side. It does not require any code access of server’s
implementation, other than just the traic between an au-
thenticated user and the server.
- Eicient Techniques. We apply diferential traic anal-
ysis to automatically reverse engineer protocol ields of
interest, such as security tokens, and also we develop an
adaptive app activity exploration scheme to execute a mo-
bile app in a targeted way and apply it to trigger post-
authentication request messages.
- Practical Results. WehavetestedAuthScopewith 4,838
popular Android apps. Our tool has identiied597 0-day
vulnerable access control implementations among the re-
mote servers of306 mobile apps. We have made responsi-
ble disclosure to all of the vulnerable service providers.
2 BACKGROUND
Inthissection,wepresentnecessarybackgroundinordertounder-
stand the common mistakes and root causes of vulnerable access
control implementations in online services. We begin with the
basic concepts of authentication and authorization in §2.1, and
then
examine why the authorization in UNIX/Linux is secure in
§2.2. Finally, we discuss how a typical secure authorization in an
1
2
3
4
User Credential
A
ccess Token
Access Token, Resource
Response
Figure 1: A Simpliied Authentication and Authoriza-
tion
Protocol in Online Services.
online service is implemented and its practical security issues in
§2.3.
2.1
Authentication and Authorization
When providing private resources to multiple users, it oten re-
quires two security services: authentication and authorization.
- Authentication. he process of verifying a user’s iden-
tity is called authentication. In a multi-user system, it is
crucial to accurately identify who makes the request. A
widely used approach to perform authentication is to use
a password system in which a user’s identity is veriied by
checking with a hashed password typed during the login.
Also, authentication typically only needs to be performed
once; otherwise it will be annoying to the user.
- Authorization. heprocessofgrantingtheaccessofspe-
ciic resources based on user’s privileges or permissions is
called authorization. Not that authentication provides the
proof of identity, but it does not describe the resources
that are allowed to be accessed by the authenticated user.
For instance, a user is authenticated before accessing a
database, but this does not tell the database system which
data the user is entitled to access. For this, it requires the
authorization service.
2.2 Authorization Security in UNIX/Linux
For a multi-user operating system such as UNIX/Linux, right ater
an authenticated user logs in, the system will automatically assign
a UID (which is just an integer) based on the proile in the system
(e.g., /etc/password) and create a shell process to serve the user’s
request. his shell process will interact with the system on behalf
oftheuserwiththeassignedUIDthatismaintainedbytheprocess
descriptor in the kernel. To change the UID of a process or a user,
it must invoke system calls.
More speciically, to ensure the security, any access to a re-
source needs to invoke system calls, in which access control is
enforced based on the UID and permissions. An adversary cannot
forge his or her UID to someone else’s even though the UID is
known, because the kernel remembers the UID and tracks it at
the corresponding process descriptor. For an adversary to really
change the UID, he or she must exploit sotware vulnerabilities in
the system such as bufer overlows in a daemon process. When
theuserlogsout, theshellprocessalsoterminatesandtheuserhas
to be authenticated again in order to use the system.
Session D2:  Vulnerable Mobile Apps
CCS’17, October 30-November 3, 2017, Dallas, TX, USA
800

=== CONCLUSION / DISCUSSION / LIMITATIONS ===

Limitations and Future Works. While AuthScope has made
a irst step towards automatic discovery of authorization vulnera-
bilities in online service, it still has a number of limitations. First,
clearly AuthScope has false negatives. For instance, we only fo-
cused on the apps that use Facebook login (essentially using Face-
book login to bypass the authentication step), but not all the apps
have been using this social login. In our experiment, we iltered
morethan 25,000mobileappsthatdonotcontainFacebooklogins.
How to handle other social login schemes (e.g., Google login), or
in general how to automatically login a remote service is still an
unsolved problem. his may require solving the challenges of au-
tomated service sign up, more intelligent Android UI recognition
and test case generation, etc.
Second, AuthScope only discovers the authorization vulnera-
bility that leads to the information leakage and account hijacking
atacks. Basically, these are atacks that lead tounauthorized read.
However, there are also many other interesting atacks such as
the unauthorized write. For instance, a user should not modify any
itemsthatbelongtootherusers. Currently, AuthScopeisnotable
to infer theunauthorized write automatically.
Finally, the vulnerable authorization is a general problem in
online services and is not just limited to Android app’s server side
implementation. Currently, we only developed the prototype that
performsdynamicAndroidappanalysisandprotocolreverseengi-
neering to infer the vulnerability, and webelieveour methodology
can also be applied to other platforms such as iOS and Windows.
Also, AuthScope currently only handles the network communica-
tions with HTTP/HTTPS protocols. We will study how to enable
AuthScope to analyze the vulnerabilities for other platforms and
other protocols, as well as addressing the irst two limitations in
our future work.
Practicality of the Attack and Countermeasures. It is abso-
lutely incorrect to use predictable numbers without further autho-
rization checks to allow access of a user’s private resource. How-
ever, service developers may feel it is secure to just use email ad-
dress or other sophisticated numbers such as Facebook ID for the
authorization. However, we have to note that recently there are
massivedataleakagesandhugevolumeofInternetuser’semailad-
dresses have been leaked. We have to consider that email address
is a public information now. Also, Facebook ID can be crawled
and it can also be considered public. herefore, the atacks we
discovered are quite practical. To really ix these vulnerabilities,
we urge service developers to follow the best practices (as we have
discussed in §2.3) such as using random token in each session,
enfor
cing the security checks with the token and particular user,
and never assuming that a client is always trusted.
Ethics and Responsible Disclosure. When developing Auth-
Scope for vulnerability discovery, we do take ethics in the highest
standard. First, weonlytestedtheserviceswiththetwolegitimate
usersweregistered(namelyAliceandBob),andweneverstealany
other user’s private information. Second, we never sent a large
volume of traic to a remote service (to perform any denial of
service atack), and all the traic is generated at the speed as how
Session D2:  Vulnerable Mobile Apps
CCS’17, October 30-November 3, 2017, Dallas, TX, USA
811
a normal user interacts with the remote system. Finally, we have
made
responsible disclosures when we discover a vulnerability.
Inparticular,wehaveimmediatelynotiiedthedevelopersbased
on the corresponding contact information on Google Play. As
a result, some app developers contacted us to discuss the details
of their server vulnerabilities and we have worked together with
them to patch the vulnerabilities. For those apps whose vulnera-
bilities have not been ixed yet at the time of this writing, we do
not reveal their concrete app names and instead just masked their
names with symbol ‘***’ as shown inTable 3. We will continue to
pr
ovide our best eforts to help ix their vulnerabilities.
8 RELATED WORK
Vulnerability Discovery in Online Services. It is challenging
to develop vulnerability free sotware, and many online services
contain various vulnerabilities ranging from SQL injection [21],
cr
oss-site-scripting [37], cross-site-forgery [11], to broken authen-
tication
[19], and even application logic vulnerabilities (e.g., [33,
39, 40, 43]). Correspondingly, signiicant amount of eforts have
b
een focusing on identifying these vulnerabilities through either
white-box analysis with server code, or black-box analysis with
just network traic.
here are also eforts to particularly study the access control
issues in the online services. Most of them focused on the au-
thenticationrelated problems, suchas security with single-sign on
(e.g., [38, 45]), oauth (e.g., [15,36]), authentication vulnerability
scanning
(e.g., [10]), and password brute-force atacks with on-
line
services (e.g., [47]). Compared to these works, AuthScope is
among
the irst few to look into the post-authentication issues in
onlineservicesandisabletoautomaticallydiscoverthevulnerable
authorizations when given mobile apps enabled with social login.
Dynamic Analysis of Mobile Apps. AuthScope leverages dy-
namic analysis of Android apps to generate server request mes-
sages. Inthepastseveralyears,therearealargebodyofresearchin
dynamic analysis of Android apps (e.g,. Monkey [7], Robotium [4],
AppsP
layground [34], and DynoDroid [26]). Recently, there are
also
efortsofusingsymbolicexecution(e.g.,[ 8,29,42,46]formore
systematic
dynamic analysis of mobile apps.
Compared to these works, AuthScope is partially inspired by
AppsPlaygroundandwehaveextendedittosupportmoreaccurate
anddeeperUIelementexploration. Whilewecanalsoleveragethe
symbolicexecutiontohavebetercoverage,werealizethatwemay
not need symbolic execution as identifying vulnerable authoriza-
tion may not need large volume of request messages. Certainly,
symbolic execution will help though.
Protocol Reverse Engineering. AuthScope needs to reverse
engineer the application protocol ields of interest and then per-
form ields substitution to identify security vulnerabilities. Over
the past decade, there are signiicant amount of eforts of analyz-
ing both network messages (e.g., [13, 16, 17, 25]) and instructions
traces
(e.g., [14, 18, 22, 23, 28, 41]) to discover protocol formats
and
use them for security applications. AuthScope is particularly
inspired by the protocol informatics project [13], and uses a cus-
tomize
d Needleman-Wunsch algorithm [30] to align and dif the
pr
otocol messages and infer only the ields of our interest.
9 CONCLUSION
We have presented the design, implementation, and evaluation of
AuthScope, a tool that is able to automatically execute a mobile
app, generate post-authentication messages, and pinpoint the vul-
nerable access control implementations, particularly the vulnera-
ble authorizations, on the server side. We have tested AuthScope
with 4,838 popular mobile apps from Google Play, and identiied
597vulnerable authorization implementations in306mobile apps.
hese are very serious security vulnerabilities, very easy to atack,
and can cause severe damages to end users such as personal infor-
mation leakage and account hijacking. We have made responsible
disclosure to all of the vulnerable service providers, and many of
themhaveacknowledgedusandpatched(orstartedtopatch)their
vulnerabilities. Finally, given the capability of such an automated
analysis, wewouldliketoraisetheawarenessofthevulnerableau-
thorization implementation issues in online services and hope the
restvulnerableserviceproviderscouldpatchtheirservicesshortly.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
We would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their very
helpful feedbacks. his research was supported in part by AFOSR
under grants FA9550-14-1-0119 and FA9550-14-1-0173, and NSF
awards 1453011 and 1516425. Any opinions, indings, conclusions,
or recommendations expressed are those of the authors and not
necessarily of the AFOSR and NSF.
