=== TITLE + ABSTRACT ===
BACFuzz: Exposing the Silence on Broken Access Control
Vulnerabilities in Web Applications
I Putu Arya Dharmaadi
University of Groningen
Groningen, Netherlands
arya.dharmaadi@rug.nl
Mohannad Alhanahnah
Chalmers University
Gothenburg, Sweden
mohannad.alhanahnah@chalmers.se
Van-Thuan Pham
The University of Melbourne
Melbourne, Australia
thuan.pham@unimelb.edu.au
Fadi Mohsen
University of Groningen
Groningen, Netherlands
f.f.m.mohsen@rug.nl
Fatih Turkmen
University of Groningen
Groningen, Netherlands
f.turkmen@rug.nl
Abstract
Broken Access Control (BAC) remains one of the most critical and
widespread vulnerabilities in web applications, allowing attackers
to access unauthorized resources or perform privileged actions.
Despite its severity, BAC is underexplored in automated testing due
to key challenges: the lack of reliable oracles and the difficulty of
generating semantically valid attack requests. We introduce BAC-
Fuzz, the first gray-box fuzzing framework specifically designed to
uncover BAC vulnerabilities, including Broken Object-Level Autho-
rization (BOLA) and Broken Function-Level Authorization (BFLA)
in PHP-based web applications. BACFuzz combines LLM-guided
parameter selection with runtime feedback and SQL-based oracle
checking to detect silent authorization flaws. It employs lightweight
instrumentation to capture runtime information that guides test
generation, and analyzes backend SQL queries to verify whether
unauthorized inputs flow into protected operations. Evaluated on 20
real-world web applications, including 15 CVE cases and 2 known
benchmarks, BACFuzz detects 16 of 17 known issues and uncovers
26 previously unknown BAC vulnerabilities with low false positive
rates. All identified issues have been responsibly disclosed, and
artifacts will be publicly released.
CCS Concepts
• Security and privacy→ Access control; • Software and its
engineering→ Software testing and debugging .
Keywords
Broken Access Control, Web, Grey-box Fuzzing, LLM, SQL, PHP
ACM Reference Format:
I Putu Arya Dharmaadi, Mohannad Alhanahnah, Van-Thuan Pham, Fadi
Mohsen, and Fatih Turkmen. 2025. BACFuzz: Exposing the Silence on
Broken Access Control Vulnerabilities in Web Applications. In Proceedings
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
Under peer-review, US
© 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YYYY/MM
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
of XXX (Under peer-review). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 12 pages. https:
//doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

=== INTRODUCTION ===

1 Introduction
The widespread adoption of web applications has brought associ-
ated security risks to the forefront, drawing significant attention
from both academia and industry. To address these risks, OWASP
has published two influential guides: the OWASP Top 10 Web Ap-
plication Security Risks [29] and the OWASP API Security Top 10
[28]. Last updated in 2023, both documents identify Broken Access
Control (BAC) as the most prevalent and critical security flaw.
BAC enables attackers to access unauthorized functionality or
data—often resulting in vertical privilege escalation [ 35]. For ex-
ample, a regular user might overwrite an administrator’s email
address or invoke privileged actions such as deleting user accounts.
Several recent high-impact incidents involving BAC vulnerabilities
(see Section 2.2) underscore the urgency of robust access control
testing.
While OWASP provides guidelines for testing access control [30],
automated tools capable of doing so with minimal human effort
remain lacking. Manual analysis is labor-intensive and difficult to
scale for complex applications [19], and most existing fuzzers pri-
marily target crash-inducing bugs [3, 50]. Recent surveys [9, 11, 48]
confirm that fuzzing research rarely addresses logical vulnerabilities
such as BAC.
Our analysis of BAC characteristics (see Section 3) identifies two
main challenges that hinder fuzzing for BAC. First, designing a
test oracle—i.e., determining whether a request triggers a vulner-
ability—is difficult because BAC violations typically do not cause
crashes or produce explicit error messages. Detecting such silent
flaws often requires deep domain knowledge, as seen in recent
research on SQL injection [44], excessive data exposure [33], and
DNS resolver bugs [49]. Heuristics based on HTTP response codes
or messages are often unreliable due to ambiguous or generic server
feedback. Second, API requests often include many parameters with
diverse data types and dependencies, resulting in a vast search space.
Generating inputs that are both valid and semantically meaningful
is non-trivial, as malformed requests are usually rejected.
To address the oracle challenge, we draw inspiration from prior
work on injection flaws [44]. Once a request is accepted, the database-
backed web application typically parses it, performs validation and
authorization checks, and then constructs backend SQL queries. If
arXiv:2507.15984v1  [cs.CR]  21 Jul 2025
Under peer-review, June xx–xx, 2025, US Dharmaadi et al.
a mutated input value appears in a resulting query, it suggests that
some validation—potentially an authorization check—was bypassed.
While this is a necessary condition for BAC, sufficiency depends on
the context; for example, in Broken Function Level Authorization
(BFLA) cases, the operation may not even be visible in the current
user’s interface. Based on this insight, we define a set of rules to
reliably detect BAC violations (see Section 4.3).
To address the input generation challenge, we focus on the
two most common BAC types: Broken Object Level Authorization
(BOLA) and Broken Function Level Authorization (BFLA). Rather
than mutating all parameters equally, we target those referencing
protected objects or functionalities—i.e., those likely to reveal privi-
lege differences between users. We collect traffic from users with
different roles, label the requests, and leverage Large Language Mod-
els (LLMs) to identify semantically important parameters. LLMs
are well-suited to this task due to their reasoning capabilities and
ability to understand structured data. This significantly reduces the
mutation space while preserving request validity.
Building on these ideas, we present BACFuzz, the first auto-
mated fuzzing tool specifically designed to detect BAC vulnera-
bilities in PHP-based web applications. BACFuzz uses a grey-box
fuzzing approach, leveraging runtime feedback collected via light-
weight code instrumentation—a method widely regarded as effec-
tive and scalable in modern fuzzing [20]. Our instrumentation uses
function hooking techniques to monitor original PHP functions
related to SQL queries, enabling precise feedback and oracle valida-
tion.
We evaluate BACFuzz on 20 PHP-based Web Under Test (WUT)
applications. It successfully reproduces 16 of 17 known BAC issues
and uncovers 26 previously unknown vulnerabilities, all of which
have been responsibly disclosed. While instrumentation introduces
minimal overhead, it enables the generation of semantically valid,
high-coverage test cases—frequently bypassing 4xx response rejec-
tions. Our results demonstrate that BACFuzz is effective, scalable,
and practical for uncovering BAC vulnerabilities in real-world ap-
plications.
In summary, this paper makes the following contributions:
(1) Novel Approach: We propose the first grey-box fuzzing method
specifically designed to automatically detect object- and function-
level BAC vulnerabilities in web applications.
(2) New Exploitation Strategy: We introduce an active checker
module that applies advanced grey-box fuzzing techniques, in-
cluding LLM-guided parameter analysis and reference mutation,
to exploit captured HTTP requests.
(3) Novel Oracle Verification: We develop a verification module
that inspects SQL queries issued by the application. If mutated
inputs appear in these queries and vulnerability type-specific
conditions are met, we confirm that the target object or function
is vulnerable.
(4) New BAC Vulnerability Dataset : We curate and release a
dataset of web applications with known CVE-reported BAC
vulnerabilities, addressing the lack of existing benchmarks for
BAC detection tools.
POST /wp-admin/admin-ajax.php HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
action=wcfm_ajax_controller&controller=wcfm-customers-
manage&..............................................customer_id=1......................................
Figure 1: An HTTP Request exploiting CVE-2024-8290. Nor-
mally, the script on the web client sets the customer_id pa-
rameter to have a default value of 0, meaning the creation
of a new customer. Arbitrarily changing the value to 1 leads
the submitted data to replace the original data of a user with
the ID of 1.

=== CONCLUSION / DISCUSSION / LIMITATIONS ===

7 Threats to Validity
While this study demonstrates the effectiveness of BACFuzz in
revealing BAC vulnerabilities, some threats to validity must be
considered when interpreting the results.
Internal Validity. The internal threat arises from how large
WUTs, such as SMF, WordPress, and PrestaShop, handle logging, as
they store extensive runtime events in dedicated log tables. These
log tables commonly record errors and unauthorized access at-
tempts, making SQL queries mostly match the submitted requests.
Therefore, it is suggested to exclude this kind of table that always
stores all submitted requests. To make the fuzzer only report valid
vulnerabilities, the fuzzer user should put these ignored tables in the
BACFuzz configuration. These ignored tables are crucial to main-
taining the report’s precision. In our experiment, we exclude tables
of smf_log (CVE-2024-7437 and CVE-2024-7438) and ps_connections
(CVE-2023-43663) from the fuzzer observation. While this filtering
step improves the precision of our results, it also introduces a slight
dependency on user knowledge of the WUT.
Construct Validity. The construct validity threat comes from
our BAC dataset. While additional related CVEs may exist beyond
our collection, we believe the selected cases are sufficiently di-
verse to support the design of our fuzzer. The dataset covers a
wide range of BAC patterns and application behaviours, making
it a representative basis for guiding and evaluating our design.
Nonetheless, our collection methodology may introduce bias to-
ward well-documented or easily reproducible vulnerabilities, which
may not capture all real-world scenarios.
8 Related Work
We identified some prior works related to BACFuzz, especially in
the web fuzzing domain and the access control testing domain.
First, there are some state-of-the-art web fuzzers, such asEvoMas-
ter [1], Restler [2], RestTestGen [46], bBOXRT [17], and RESTest [22],
which work effectively in triggering web crashes. However, they
cannot reveal BAC problems because the characteristics between
crash and BAC are very different. There are also vulnerability-
driven fuzzers which focus more on non-crash vulnerabilities, like
Witcher [44], EDEFuzz [33], ResolverFuzz [49], and Atropos [12];
however, they are not revealing BAC.
Second, there are some recent works on access control testing.
Rennhard et al. [38] and Kushnir et al. [16] developed practical solu-
tions to automatically detect BAC on web applications. Since their
works are limited by manipulating GET requests only, performed
in a black-box setup, and comparing web responses for vulnerabil-
ity verification, these are different from our work. Our proposed
fuzzer manipulates more attack vectors, works in a grey-box setting
with more advanced techniques, and uses SQL queries to verify the
vulnerability. The work of Sun et al. [43] used static analysis for vul-
nerability detection; however, it only works well for traditional web
applications that are not AJAX-heavy. Our work uses a dynamic
testing setup that catches HTTP requests, rather than observing
HTML links, thus it can handle modern web applications. As men-
tioned in Section 6.2, existing work based on static analysis [ 13]
requires manual creation of test files, making it less practical than
our work. Lastly, the work of Kim et al. [15] investigates parameter
tampering on the web; however, they highly rely on human inter-
vention to decide whether tampering is successful in altering the
business process. Our fuzzer uses automatic verification through
query checking, making much less human involvement.
In the domain of vulnerability scanners, there are two widely
used tools: OWASP ZAP [32] and Burp Suite [36], which operate in
a black-box setting to detect various security issues, including BAC.
However, their access control testing is not fully automated. Users
are required to manually configure an access control list (ACL)
defining which functions should be allowed/denied for specific
users. This setup process is both time-consuming and challenging.
Furthermore, those tools do not support object-level access control
testing and rely solely on web responses to verify ACL violations.
As discussed in Section 3.2, this verification method is often insuf-
ficient for accurately identifying authorization flaws. To address
these limitations, our work introduces automated approaches that
eliminate the need for predefined ACLs and accurately verify BAC.
9 Conclusion and Future Work
Broken Access Control (BAC) vulnerabilities remain pervasive in
web applications, yet pose unique challenges for automated detec-
tion due to the lack of reliable oracles and the difficulty of gener-
ating semantically valid attack inputs. In this paper, we presented
BACFuzz, a grey-box fuzzing framework specifically designed to
uncover BAC vulnerabilities—including BOLA and BFLA—by com-
bining hierarchical role analysis, reference mutation, and SQL-based
oracle checking. Empirical evaluation across 20 real-world PHP ap-
plications demonstrates that BACFuzz effectively detects 16 of 17
known issues and uncovers 26 previously unknown vulnerabilities,
all with low false positive rates. By releasing the source code and
curated evaluation dataset, we aim to foster further research on
BAC vulnerabilities and support the development of more secure
web applications.
BACFuzz: Exposing the Silence on Broken Access Control Vulnerabilities in Web Applications Under peer-review, June xx–xx, 2025, US
As acknowledged in Section 3.3, there are some types of BAC
that fall outside the scope of this work and represent directions
for future exploration. First, we identified context-dependent BAC,
which refers to vulnerabilities that only manifest after a user per-
forms specific actions, causing a WUT to enter a certain state. These
cases require preconditions (e.g., resource creation or feature acti-
vation) before unauthorized access becomes observable. Second, we
identified passive or view-type BAC, which allows unauthorized
users to gain access to sensitive information without modifying
any data in the DBMS. Since BACFuzz relies on data manipulation
(DML) queries to infer unexpected actions, it is difficult to verify the
violation of restricted information displayed on user pages that only
involve SELECT statements. As a result, both context-dependent
and passive BAC remain open challenges for future work.
