=== TITLE + ABSTRACT ===
Rethinking Broken Object Level Authorization Attacks Under Zero Trust
Principle
ANBIN WU and ZHIYONG FENG, The College of Intelligence and Computing, Tianjin University, CHINA
RUITAO FENG∗, Southern Cross University, Australia
ZHENCHANG XING, CSIRO’s Data61, Australia
YANG LIU, School of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
RESTful APIs facilitate data exchange between applications, but they also expose sensitive resources to potential exploitation. Broken
Object Level Authorization (BOLA) is the top vulnerability in the OWASP API Security Top 10, exemplifies a critical access control flaw
where attackers manipulate API parameters to gain unauthorized access. To address this, we propose BolaZ, a defense framework
grounded in zero trust principles. BolaZ analyzes the data flow of resource IDs, pinpointing BOLA attack injection points and
determining the associated authorization intervals to prevent horizontal privilege escalation. Our approach leverages static taint
tracking to categorize APIs into producers and consumers based on how they handle resource IDs. By mapping the propagation paths
of resource IDs, BolaZ captures the context in which these IDs are produced and consumed, allowing for precise identification of
authorization boundaries. Unlike defense methods based on common authorization models, BolaZ is the first authorization-guided
method that adapts defense rules based on the system’s best-practice authorization logic. We validate BolaZ through empirical
research on 10 GitHub projects. The results demonstrate BolaZ’s effectiveness in defending against vulnerabilities collected from CVE
and discovering 35 new BOLA vulnerabilities in the wild, demonstrating its practicality in real-world deployments.
CCS Concepts: • Security and privacy→ Web application security.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: API security, BOLA attack, RESTful APIs, Access control.
ACM Reference Format:
Anbin Wu, Zhiyong Feng, Ruitao Feng, Zhenchang Xing, and Yang Liu. 2025. Rethinking Broken Object Level Authorization Attacks
Under Zero Trust Principle. In Proceedings of ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology. ACM, New York, NY, USA,
27 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

=== INTRODUCTION ===

1 Introduction
RESTful APIs have become the standard for accessing web-oriented resources, enabling users to initiate operational
requests through HTTP methods, paths, and parameters. However, the parameters of RESTful APIs are user-controlled,
hence, inherently untrusted. Attackers can exploit this by tampering with the resource ID parameter to access sensitive
data of other users without authorization, leading to a Broken Object Level Authorization (BOLA) attack [19].
Resource ID is the unique identifier of resources in REST API that are used to operate (INSERT, DELETE, UPDATE, READ)
∗Corresponding author
Authors’ Contact Information: Anbin Wu, wuanbin@tju.edu.cn; Zhiyong Feng, zyfeng@tju.edu.cn, The College of Intelligence and Computing, Tianjin
University, CHINA; Ruitao Feng, Southern Cross University, Australia, ruitao.feng@scu.edu.au; Zhenchang Xing, CSIRO’s Data61, Australia, zhenchang.
xing@anu.edu.au; Yang Liu, School of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, yangliu@ntu.edu.sg.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not
made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components
of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on
servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Manuscript submitted to ACM 1
arXiv:2507.02309v2  [cs.CR]  15 Jul 2025

=== CONCLUSION / DISCUSSION / LIMITATIONS ===

7 Discussion and Future Work
7.1 Threat to Validity.
Through our experiments, we identified certain limitations in BolaZ’s data flow analysis when the scenarios are
relatively specific. First, as systems grow more complex in functionality and logic, it becomes challenging to interpret
client-side control conditions using static code analysis. BolaZ sometimes was unable to determine which resource
IDs produced by P-APIs are passed to C-APIs solely by analyzing condition code, particularly in scenarios involving
client-controlled deletion and modification operations.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Rethinking Broken Object Level Authorization Attacks Under Zero Trust Principle 25
Second, due to varying levels of developer expertise and coding practices, the same logic can be implemented in
numerous ways. CodeQL cannot accommodate all coding patterns, leading to interruptions in some data flow analysis
processes. As a result, API identification and association may fail, leaving some BOLA vulnerabilities unaddressed. In
these cases, BolaZ will not restrict such APIs, and the vulnerabilities may persist.
Third, BolaZ is currently implemented on the SpringBoot framework. A fact is that the propagation logic and
behavior of resource IDs remains consistent in varied languages or frameworks. Hence, BolaZ is a generic approach at
the methodological level.
7.2 Future Work.
First, BolaZ currently only supports databases. In the future, we plan to investigate the potential of the MSG concept
in other types of storage systems. Second, improvements are needed in BolaZ’s front-end code analysis. We aim to
integrate dynamic application security testing to better capture the logical relationships between P-APIs and C-APIs.
Additionally, to address data flow interruptions in taint tracking, we will offer open programming interfaces, allowing
users to adapt BolaZ to their system’s coding patterns through customized rules.
8 Related Work
8.1 API Automated Testing
Most automated tests for RESTful APIs focus on functional tests and are not used to detect BOLA vulnerabilities.
However, we can draw ideas from API automated testing methods.
RestTestGen [45] analyzed the producers and consumers of resources in the API based on OAS. RESTler [3] deduces
producer-consumer dependencies of resources and resource IDs based on OAS. EvoMaster [2] generates test cases for
RESTful APIs by analyzing the source code. However, EvoMaster believes that users can only operate on the resources
they create, which does not apply to all application scenarios. Atlidakis et al. [4] used automated API testing to verify
whether the API violated the user-namespace rule. The rule holds that the resources produced by user A cannot be
accessed by user B, and does not apply to all resource relationships. Corradini et al. [ 10] Detect Mass Assignment
Vulnerabilities in RESTful APIs using automated black-box testing. The method using common naming practices to
identify the Resource ID is inaccurate. RESTest [28] is an automated black-box testing tool for RESTful APIs, which
supports inference of dependencies between parameters.
8.2 Static Anlaysis-based BOLA Vulnerability Detection
Application source code contains resource access patterns, so many tools use static analysis techniques to infer resource’s
authorization rules from the source code.
SPACE [32] requires developers to provide a mapping of application resources to the basic types that occur in SPACE
catalog. SPACE uses symbolic execution to extract the data exposures from source code. Then SPACE checks whether
each data exposure is allowed. Cancheck [ 5] also requires developers to provide authorization rules for resources.
RoleCast [37] common software engineering patterns to determine resource authorization patterns, but RoleCast’s
patterns do not apply to all web applications. MACE [29] analyzes INSERT statements to determine relationships between
users and resources, but MACE only supports the ownership model [18] and cannot detect the BOLA vulnerability of
SELECT statements. BOLARAY [18] combines SQL and static analysis to automatically identify BOLA vulnerabilities in
database-backed applications. However, BOLARAY also requires developers to mark DAL specifications, and does not
Manuscript submitted to ACM
26 Anbin Wu et al.
support the detection of BOLA vulnerabilities in SELECT statements. The principle of MOCGuard [26] and BOLARAY
to detect BOLA vulnerabilities is highly similar. They are based on human-summarized authorization models and use
the relationship between the database tables corresponding to the resources to infer whether the user has permission to
access the corresponding resources. The four authorization models summarized by BOLARAY are more comprehensive
than MOCGuard and cover more scenarios. Similarly, MOCGuard also cannot handle the dynamic authorization logic
of unknown systems due to the static nature of the artificially summarized authorization model.
8.3 Runtime Monitoring
There are also some works to enforce access control at system runtime. Nemesis [14] ensures that only authenticated
users can access resources under the manual authorization policy. FlowWatcher [31] found that the access control
pattern of resources in most web applications is similar. Therefore, FlowWatcher requires developers to provide an
access policy to detect whether the policy is violated during system runtime.
9 Conclusions
This paper proposes a defense framework for BOLA attacks, BolaZ, based on zero trust. The framework uses static
taint tracking technology to obtain propagation data flows of resource IDs and determines APIs’ role according to the
production and consumption of resource IDs. To capture the context semantic relationship between P-APIs and C-APIs,
BolaZ also tracks the propagation path of resource IDs between APIs. Experiments show that BolaZ can effectively
identify and correlate APIs, low-performance overhead, and high security in multi-API vulnerability scenarios.
Acknowledgments
This work is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 62372323.
